# About

An open place to share compliance results of board's firmwares with BIOS, UEFI, ACPI,
Multiboot... Anything your software (bootloader, OS...) may rely on.

Every non ad hoc operating system relies highly on standardized interfaces that
the firmware and the bootloader(s) are largely responsible for (e.g., the
physical memory mapping, EFI services). Non compliant firmwares are likely to
cause serious problems and undefined behaviours (e.g., bootloader errors, power
management issues). Since firmwares of proprietary boards cannot be replaced
with better ones, you could end up with an unusable board. So far, you can only
hope and cross your fingers to purchase a board with a firmware correctly
implementing the features your OS expects.

Every firmware developer should provide these results. Until then, feel free to share with the
community, especially if your results show important errors... Standard testing tools such as
Firmware Test Suite ([FWTS]) or Linux UEFI Validation ([LUV]) are freely available and allow you to
test your firmware with a live CD/USB very simply.

# Consulting Results

You can use http://rawgit.com/ to render html results without cloning the repository ([demo](https://cdn.rawgit.com/farjump/fwtr/master/intel/nuc/de3815tykhe/visual-bios/TYBYT10H.86A.0046.2015.1014.1057/fwts/uefi-linux/results.html)). Raw text
files are also generated by the testing tools.

# Testing your firmware

Live images are available and are the easiest way to test your firmware without modifying your OS setup.
Simply download it, copy it on a USB key, and boot from it (telling your firmware to do so). Please
follow the official documentation of the tool you chose.

## Ubuntu's Firmware Test Suite (FWTS) - recommended

Allows to test BIOS, UEFI and ACPI interfaces.

The [Firmware Test Suite] is officially
[recommended by the UEFI Board of Directors](http://uefi.org/testtools) for ACPI Self-Certification
Test.

### Live Image

The easiest way to run it is using [the live image](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/FirmwareTestSuiteLive).
It does everything for you: from running the tools according to the test suites you selected, to saving the results
in the key. You can then send the result with a pull request ;)

### Command line

Install or compile [FWTS] from the [sources](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git/hwe/fwts.git).

Usage example:
```sh
# root privileges required
$ mkdir my-test && cd my-test
$ fwts -d -f --log-type html --batch
# asks fwts to run every non-interactive tests available (--batch), dump firmware log files (-d),
# log the results in HTML (--log-type), and recreate new logs (-f).
$ ls
results.html acpi.log lspcidump.log dmes.log ...
```

Refer to [the reference]([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/Reference]) for more details about
available test suites.

Note: `--log-type` can take a comma-separated list of log types such as `--log-type plaintext,html`

## Intel's Linux UEFI Validation (LUV)

[Linux UEFI Validation]. Similar to [FWTS].

### Live Image

The easiest way to run it is also using [the live image](https://01.org/linux-uefi-validation/downloads/luv-live-image).
It does everything for you: from running the tool, to saving the results in the key. 
You can then send the resulting directory with a pull request ;)

# Contributing - Sharing results

This repository is meant to be very simple and as straightforward as possible. Results are
classified by vendor, board, firmware version, test suite/tool, firmware configuration variants:

```text
<vendor>/<board-tree>/<firmware>/<version>/<testing-tool>/<test-variant>/<test-outputs>
```

The `test-variant` should be named after the firmware's settings and described by its `README.md`.
These firmware settings should influence the results. For example, disabling firmware's secure boot
makes associated test suite fail. Note that tools like [FWTS] allow you to unselect test suites if
you want to disable some according to your settings. [FWTS] is also generally able to skip disabled
features.

Structure example of a (not-recommended) Intel NUC DE3815THYKE:

```text
intel
├── nuc
│   ├── de3815tykhe
│   │   ├── README.md
│   │   └── visual-bios
│   │       └── TYBYT10H.86A.0046.2015.1014.1057
│   │           ├── fwts
│   │           │   ├── uefi-linux
│   │           │   │   ├── acpidump.log
│   │           │   │   ├── cpuinfo.log
│   │           │   │   ├── dmesg.log
│   │           │   │   ├── lspci.log
│   │           │   │   ├── README.md
│   │           │   │   ├── results.html
│   │           │   │   └── results.log
│   │           │   └── uefi-windows
│   │           │       ├── acpidump.log
│   │           │       ├── cpuinfo.log
│   │           │       ├── dmesg.log
│   │           │       ├── lspci.log
│   │           │       ├── README.md
│   │           │       ├── results.html
│   │           │       └── results.log
│   │           └── luv
│   │               ├── uefi-linux
│   │               │   ├── luv.html
│   │               │   ├── README.md
│   │               │   ├── parsed
│   │               │   │   ├── bits
│   │               │   │   ├── chipsec
│   │               │   │   ├── efivarfs-test
│   │               │   │   ├── fwts
│   │               │   │   └── kernel-efi-warnings
│   │               │   └── raw
│   │               │       ├── bits
│   │               │       ├── chipsec
│   │               │       ├── efivarfs-test
│   │               │       ├── fwts
│   │               │       └── kernel-efi-warnings
│   │               └── uefi-windows
│   │                   └── README.md
│   └── README.md
└── README.md
```

If the location is unclear to you, place your result folder wherever you think it should
be and create a pull request that will be reviewed before merging.

[FWTS]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite
[Firmware Test Suite]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite
[LUV]: https://01.org/linux-uefi-validation
[Linux UEFI Validation]: https://01.org/linux-uefi-validation
